---
layout: posts
title: The (earning and dating)  Power of Height
date: 2014-12-28 23:53
author: edward
categories: blog Personal
slug: draft_32
status: draft
---

(this is not a post about scripting)

For most of my life, I didn't think much about my height. In the last decade or so, I've become more aware of research showing the influence of height on a man's love life and earning power.

For example...

[Dan Ariely](http://danariely.com/tag/dating/ "Posts tagged 'dating' from Dan Ariely's blog") and some associates were able to mind some data from one of the large dating sites. They found that for women, the single largest factor affecting how many men would send a message after reading her profile was her weight. In fact, the women receiving the most messages from men were those whose weight was at the bottom of or even below the normal Body Mass Index (BMI) range - the most popular women (in terms of being messaged) had BMIs around 18.5 (!). The "normal" BMI range (i.e., not overweight) is generally considered to be 20 - 25.

For men, there were two factors - salary, and height. According to a [book by Jena Pincott,](http://www.barnesandnoble.com/w/do-gentlemen-really-prefer-blondes-jena-pincott/1112125843 "popularization of scientific findings on sex, dating, etc") Ariely's research showed that tall men have a towering (sorry) advantage when it comes to dating. For example, a man standing 5 feet 4 inches tall would have to earn (well, claim to earn - this was data from a dating site, after all) a salary of \$234,000 (!) to attract the same amount of attention as a 6'2" man with a reported salary of \$60,000. Being 5'4" myself, this was an eye-opening statistic for me.

So short guys need a lot more money to attract female interest than tall guys do. Unfortunately for us short guys, being shorter may mean we earn less than tall guys as well.

["Why tall people make more money"](http://www.cnn.com/2007/US/Careers/02/02/cb.tall.people/ "Why tall people make more money - CNN article") (a CNN article from a few years ago) listed three pieces of research on the effect of stature on a man's earning power. Perhaps the most famous research (at least among us short guys) was

> A 2004 study by psychologist Timothy A. Judge, Ph.D., of the University of Florida, and researcher Daniel M. Cable, Ph.D., of the University of North Carolina, \[which\] found that every inch of height amounts to a salary increase of about \$789 per year (the study controlled for gender, weight and age).

What accounts for the discrepancy? Judge and Cable theorize that evolutionary psychology holds the key - that taller men earn more because they're seen as more authoritative and with more leadership potential by nature, and thus are better able to negotiate higher salaries. But there's another explanation advanced by some researchers. According to the CNN article,

> A new study published in August 2006 by Princeton economists Anne Case and Christina Paxson offers a fresh and decidedly controversial explanation for why taller people make more money: They're just smarter.

According to Case and Paxson, the reason we short guys as a group tend to earn less is because our average wage is driven down by shorter, less-intelligent men who can only manage to find poorly-paying menial labor jobs. Case and Paxson are concerned with the importance of prenatal and early-childhood nutrition on intellectual and physical development.
